Practical Bash Usage – Example 2
In this example, let’s assume we are in
the middle of a penetration test
and have unprivileged access to a Windows
machine.
As we continue to collect information,
we realize it may be vulnerable
to an exploit that we read about that
began with the letters a, f, and d
but we can’t remember the full name of
the exploit.
In an attempt to escalate our privileges,
we want to search for that specific
exploit.
To do this, we would need to search
Exploit-DB for “afd windows”,
download the exploits that match our
search criteria,
and inspect them until we find the proper
one.
We could do this manually through the web
site, which wouldn’t take too long,
but if we take the time to write a Bash
script, we could easily use it to search
for and automatically download exploits
later.
Using what we now know about scripting,
let’s try to automate this task.
We’ll start with the SearchSploit utility
included with Kali.
SearchSploit is a command line search
tool for Exploit-DB that allows us to
take an offline copy of the Exploit
Database with us wherever we go.
We will pass “afd windows” as a search
string…
…use -w to return the Exploit-DB URL
rather than the local path,
and -t to search the exploit title.
This is a good start, but we need to trim
the results.
For now, we’re only interested in the
exploit’s URL.
So let’s grep for “http” and then cut
what we need.
We will use a “|” field delimiter and
extract the second field.
That looks a little better.
Now that we have the URL for each exploit,
we can use a Bash loop to download the
files and save them locally.
However, before we do that, we notice
that each page has a link to download
the “raw” exploit code, which is really
what we’re after.
Armed with this information, let’s carry
on with our example.
We run sed to modify the download URL,
and insert it into a Bash one-liner to
download the raw code for the exploits.
Note the use of a for loop which iterates
through the URLs we grabbed.
Inside the loop, we set exp_name to the
“name” of the exploit
(using grep, cut, and command
substitution)
and set the url to the raw download
location
(again with sed and command substitution).
If that is successful we grab the exploit
with wget in quiet mode
with no certificate check saving it
locally with the exploit name
as the local file name.
When we get our command prompt back, we
can verify that the exploits were indeed
downloaded, using file to verify that the
files are text.
We can inspect each exploit, and see that
we did, in fact, grab the raw exploits.
Even though we had success with a Bash
one-liner,
our code is not very clean and it’s not
particularly easy to re-use.
Let’s put everything together in a Bash
script to solve these problems.
This script is identical to our Bash
one-liner and even though it has
hard-coded search term, is still much
easier to update and maintain.
We can now manually inspect the exploits…
…find the ones we are interested in, try
them on a test machine,
and finally run the proper exploit on our
target, since shotgunning random exploits
at a live target is bad form and a recipe
for total disaster.